(light music)
In this video we're gonna take a very brief look
at what's available in JDK for trees,
mainly because there aren't a lot of classes for trees.
The one that you will probably use is the TreeMap class.
The TreeMap class takes key value pairs
and so lets say wanted to store our employees in a tree,
we could provide a key like an interger key
and then the employee object as the value.
Now it says that this is
a Red-Black tree based NavigableMap implementation.
And I mentioned Red-Black trees in one of the videos,
they are a self balancing tree.
And so what they do is, after every insertion or deletion,
they check the tree to see how balanced it is.
Now a Red-Black tree does not perfectly balance the tree,
but its good enough.
And its the preferred, self balancing tree these days
because it has a good trade off between balancing a tree
to a good enough degree and performance.
And so if you use the tree map class,
you actually using a Red-Black tree in the background.
Now it does say that it guarantees log n time
for containskey, get, put and remove
and that because a Red Black tree is a Binary Search Tree.
And so as we know with Binary Search Trees
as long as they are not too out of balance,
you can do inserts, deletes and retrievals
and all log n time.
One last thing to note, this is not synchronised,
so if you wanted to use it for multiple threads
they suggest that you wrap this class
by calling the collections .synchronizedsortedMapmethod.
And If we look down at the methods,
we are familiar with quite a few
we've looked at them before.
We can see that it descends from AbstractMap.
So AbstractMap implements the math interface
and we looked at that in an earlier video
when we were looking at Hashtables,
And so we are gonna go through this
and we not gonna code it because its a just
a matter of reading the method description and coding it.
We've implemented a simple tree and you know how they work
and this is just one implementation.
So you know if you wanted to add a node
you use the put method, as you would with any Map
if you want to retrieve a node you use the get method,
you can remove nodes, you can replace nodes
which means you would replace the value
for the node with specified key.
So basically this implementation would search the node with
this key and set the value for the node to the new value.
You can find out how many nodes are in the tree,
and there are a few things other things that you can do.
So I'm gonna live you to explore this class on your own.
There is also a TreeSet class I believe,
let me come up here.
We haven't covered Sets yet
I'm gonna have a brief video on those towards
the end of the course.
Basically a Set just means that
the data structure cannot contain duplicate element.
So its an Abstract Data type because
you can have a TreeSet,
you can a list as a Set
and we're gonna briefly look at Sets
towards the end of the course.
I just wanna make you aware now
that there is a TreeSet class.
And this an implementation based on TreeMap.
So that's it.
That all we're gonna look at for the JDK
and that's the end of the section on trees.
In the next section we are gonna take at Heap.
Heaps are a special type of tree.
And so I will see you there.